README.md, before:

# roster

This repository serves as a programming project to assess your understanding of certain Python concepts and give you an opportunity to demonstrate your Python proficiency by crafting a solution class and sharing your design decisions.

## the problem

Mrs. Jones, a teacher at Billings Elementary School, has been asked by the administration to track her students' grades in a roster stored in an Excel file. Unfortunatly, Mrs. Jones had a bad experience with Excel as a child and as solemnly sworn never to use Excel again. Your task is to create a Python class for reading and manipulating a provided Excel file so Mrs. Jones doesn't haven't to use Excel to successfully record her students' grades.

### grading

You will be graded on:
- the architecture and elegance of your code
- the cleanliness and documentation of your code
- the number of unit tests that you pass

It is not necessarily expected that you will be able to construct a solution that can pass all the unittests, so focus more on quality if you feel you will have a hard time completing the project.

## python setup

For your convenience, scripts for setting up a Python virtual environment are provided. You must have python installed to use these scripts.

### MacOS and Unix

To setup a Python 2.7 environment on MacOS or linux use the ``setup.sh`` script.

```bash
hostname:username$ sh setup.sh
```

For a Python 3 environment, use the ``setup3.sh`` script. Note that the ``openpyxl`` dependency requires Python >= 3.5.

### Windows

To setup a Python 2.7 environment on Windows use the ``setup.bat`` script.

```batch
C:\Users\username\Documents\roster> setup.bat
```

For a Python 3 environment, use the ``setup3.bat`` script. Note that the ``openpyxl`` dependency requires Python >= 3.5.

## repository setup

In order to share your work with me for review, you will need to setup a private GitHub repository. Here is how that is done:

1. Set up a new private `roster` repository under your personal GitHub account. (These used to be available only to paid users of GitHub but are now available to all users with a limit on collaborators.) Don't forget to make it private, and make sure you don't check "Initialize this repository with a README or include a .gitignore or license file.
1. Add `timothy-thomas` as a collaborator for this new private repository.
1. Clone this repository to your local machine.
1. Navigate to the cloned repository, checkout a new branch to track your changes, add a remote for your private repository, and finally push your new branch to the master branch of your private repository:

```bash
$ git checkout -b private
Switched to a new branch 'private'
$ git remote add private git@github.com:<github-username>/roster.git
$ git push private -u master
Enter passphrase for key '/Users/<user>/.ssh/id_rsa': 
Counting objects: 42, done.
Delta compression using up to 8 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (36/36), done.
Writing objects: 100% (42/42), 21.90 KiB | 0 bytes/s, done.
Total 42 (delta 17), reused 0 (delta 0)
remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (17/17), done.
To git@github.com:<github-username>/roster.git
 * [new branch]      private -> master
Branch private set up to track remote branch master from private.
```

Now when you commit changes to the `private` branch and push them, they will go to your private repository and be accessible for review by me.

Commit message:

switched the enviroment and the setup to use poetry

README.md, after:

# Roster

This repository serves as a programming project to assess your understanding of certain Python concepts and give you an opportunity to demonstrate your Python proficiency by crafting a solution class and sharing your design decisions.

## The problem

Mrs. Jones, a teacher at Billings Elementary School, has been asked by the administration to track her students' grades in a roster stored in an Excel file. Unfortunatly, Mrs. Jones had a bad experience with Excel as a child and as solemnly sworn never to use Excel again. Your task is to create a Python class for reading and manipulating a provided Excel file so Mrs. Jones doesn't haven't to use Excel to successfully record her students' grades.

### Grading

You will be graded on:
- the architecture and elegance of your code
- the cleanliness and documentation of your code
- the number of unit tests that you pass

It is not necessarily expected that you will be able to construct a solution that can pass all the unittests, so focus more on quality if you feel you will have a hard time completing the project.


## Repository setup

In order to share your work with me for review, you will need to setup a private GitHub repository. Here is how that is done:

1. Set up a new private `roster` repository under your personal GitHub account. (These used to be available only to paid users of GitHub but are now available to all users with a limit on collaborators.) Don't forget to make it private, and make sure you don't check "Initialize this repository with a README or include a .gitignore or license file.
1. Add `timothy-thomas` as a collaborator for this new private repository.
1. Clone this repository to your local machine.
1. Navigate to the cloned repository, checkout a new branch to track your changes, add a remote for your private repository, and finally push your new branch to the master branch of your private repository:

```bash
$ git checkout -b private
Switched to a new branch 'private'
$ git remote add private git@github.com:<github-username>/roster.git
$ git push private -u master
Enter passphrase for key '/Users/<user>/.ssh/id_rsa': 
Counting objects: 42, done.
Delta compression using up to 8 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (36/36), done.
Writing objects: 100% (42/42), 21.90 KiB | 0 bytes/s, done.
Total 42 (delta 17), reused 0 (delta 0)
remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (17/17), done.
To git@github.com:<github-username>/roster.git
 * [new branch]      private -> master
Branch private set up to track remote branch master from private.
```

Now when you commit changes to the `private` branch and push them, they will go to your private repository and be accessible for review by me.

## Python setup

For your convenience, setting up the virtual environment has been automated using poetry. https://python-poetry.org/ You must have python with poetry installed.

Navigate to the root directory of the project and run "poetry install"

```bash
~/projects/roster$ poetry install
````
Switch to the interactive enviroment (PYTHON) by typing "poetry shell". Note the envire thwe python activation and path you the virtual environment, as well as the change to the prompt to oinclude the current python shell.

```bash
$ poetry shell
~/projects/roster$ . /home/<username>/.cache/pypoetry/virtualenvs/roster-8HzyDvUH-py3.8/bin/activate
(roster-8HzyDvUH-py3.8) $~/projects/roster$
````
